.. _quick-start:

Quick Start
------------------------------------------


The entry point of creating an project is http://localhost:8686/create. The page
looks like

.. image:: ../media/doc/images/project-creation-blank.png
  :width: 500

``Project Name`` is an arbitrary string. You can create multiple projects, but
they cannot have duplicated names. You can choose ``Item Type`` and ``Label
Type`` from the dropdown menus. An automatic page title will be provided based
on the label settings. A project consists of multiple tasks. ``Task Size`` is
the number of items (image or point cloud) in each task.

``Item List`` is the list of images or point clouds to label. The format is
either json or yaml with a list of frame objects in the `BDD100K data format
<https://github.com/ucbdrive/bdd-data/blob/master/doc/format.md>`_. The only
required field for the item list is ``url``. See
[examples/image_list.yml](examples/image_list.yml) for an example of image list.

``Category`` and ``Attributes`` are the list of tags giving to each label.
Typical settings are shown in `examples/categories.yml
<https://github.com/scalabel/scalabel/blob/master/examples/categories.yml>`_ and
`examples/bbox_attributes.yml
<https://github.com/scalabel/scalabel/blob/master/examples/bbox_attributes.yml>`_.
We also support multi-level categories such as `two
<https://github.com/scalabel/scalabel/blob/master/examples/two_level_categories.yml>`_
and `three
<https://github.com/scalabel/scalabel/blob/master/examples/three_level_categories.yml>`_
levels. Scalabel also supports `image tagging
<https://github.com/scalabel/scalabel/blob/master/examples/image_tags.yml>`_.

If you want to create an annotation project to label 2d bounding boxes, the
setup will looks like

.. image:: ../media/doc/images/project-creation.png
  :width: 500

After ``ENTER`` is clicked, the project will be created and two dashboards will
be generated. The links to the dashboards will appear in the project creation
page.

.. image:: ../media/doc/images/project-creation-after-enter.png
  :width: 500

``DASHBOARD`` is the main dashboard for annotation progress and label
downloading.

.. image:: ../media/doc/images/creator-dashboard.png
  :width: 500

You can download the annotation results in BDD format from the ``EXPORT RESULTS``
button in the toolbar on the left.

``VENDOR DASHBOARD`` is for the annotation vendor to check the list of tasks.

.. image:: ../media/doc/images/vendor-dashboard.png
  :width: 500

The task link will lead you to each task. In our example, the task is to label
2D bounding boxes with their categories and attributes.

.. image:: ../media/doc/images/bbox2d-interface.jpg
  :width: 500
